The goal of this project is to reexamine some of the moral lessons that are found in common myths and stories. I grew up reading about Greek myths such as Pandora and Prometheus, as well as hearing about Adam and Eve from my Christian relatives. Even as a kid, something always seemed off to me about these stories. I realized recently what it was that bothered me. These stories all share the theme of punishing people for their natural inclinations and ambitions, or even for their genuine attempt to help other people, like in the tale of Prometheus. I think that these messages are very negative towards these aspects of human nature. If you look closely you will find that the stories don’t really show the faults of humans, but rather those of the gods who put them in those situations. The subjugation of people by the rules of gods or those in power is a bigger impediment to human progress than disobedience to those rules is.

Since I was a child when I first heard these stories, I wanted to design this project in a storybook style, with pictures and text alongside each other. I created simple graphics from scratch in p5.js, inspired by games like Minecraft which use simple geometrical shapes to make up apples, torches, and chests just like I did. 

Although the present scope of this project is small, I hope that my ideas can begin to be communicated through these interactive scenes. And that afterwards, you may not be scared to open the box, to bite the apple, or to light the fire, whatever that might mean in your own life.
